So we're gonna actually talk about
options now, because options are enums.
But they're the answer to null and
undefined at the exact same time,
which means you can just
create your own option type.
And you can have your own way you want
to handle none versus something there
in Rust.
It's pretty neat, but
let's go over a quick challenge.
Is this last line valid?
Why or why not?
Yeah, no one can really answer that
question effectively cuz it's a crazy
question, isn't it?
So answer, of course,
is that depends on what you have
enabled inside your TSConfig.
If you have exact optional properties,
that means this is illegal.
Because technically, if you called
object.keys, you'd actually have a bar.
But you've said either there's nothing or
it's a string.
You didn't say it's undefined and
string, you said it's nothing or string.
So, again, TypeScript,
a lot of loosey goosey behavior.
Sometimes it's wonky or
weird to kind of reason about things.
Just kind of like little fun fact in here.
So Rust obviously handles them different.
Here is my TypeScript, or
here's my Rust definition of an Option.
Notice it's generic, that means it
can take any type you want it to be.
And it's gonna be None,
meaning there's nothing there.
Or it's gonna be Some with value T,
or type T underneath.
So just like how we did custom,
usize, and string,
Option does no type, or
whatever type you define, they're generic.
So that's why when I do Some five,
underneath the hood,
it's Option of type usize.
But when I noticed when I did None,
it said, hey, you need to type,
annotate me cuz I have
no idea what you are.
I can redo that really quickly.
So if I go let foo = Some(5),
I'm just creating an enum of Option.
That is in i32.
But if I go let foo = None,
it's gonna go, I don't know what you are.
What are you?
Cuz you haven't defined your generic yet.
So pretty neat.
That's where you're gonna have to do
something like,
maybe I'm an Option or String.
Why not, I can be whatever I want to be.
I just might not be there.
So that's what Option means,
so you have None and Some.
And obviously, as you can see, when I
did green stuff, or when I did Item,
you'll notice that I had to do
these little colons right here.
Rust just provides it so that you can
just call Some, instead of Option::Some.
It's the same thing.
That's what's actually happening
underneath the hood right now.
You're just calling Some,
or you're calling None.
All right, so Options,
they're very, very important.
But why?
Why do we need Options in Rust?
Well, it always comes down to memory.
So when JavaScript land,
when you are returning a value,
it actually creates a box value that
is controlled by the garbage collector.
There's also sneeze, which are handled
slightly differently, but nonetheless,
there's something that has
to hold on to your value.
And so it's boxed, meaning we don't know
what it is, but it's a box with a type
discriminator that's pointing somewhere
else to the actual value that you have.
So Rust does the same thing.
It just does it with Option.
You have a box that boxes Option,
and it has one or two values.
And so going back here,
you can imagine we would drop this and
we'd have this being the None case,
and this being the Some case.
And so that is what's
happening underneath the hood.
So when Rust returns an Option,
underneath the hood, on the stack,
it can create that memory.
And so that way, we don't have
any sort of weird things happen.
We'll go over a little bit more
of what happens on the stack, but
that's why it has to exist.
There's no such thing as nothing
in a strict type language,
because it has to create the exact memory
size that it needs to put something in it.
And if it just sometimes is there,
sometimes not,
well, it just would never work out.
It'd be too crazy inside your system.
Things would just be going nuts.
Since they are enums,
you can use if/match statements.
You can do all the same
tricks we've already learned.
If let some x equals the option.
So I can jump back here and
go, if Some(x) = foo.
Now remember, the last time I just
defined foo, it's an option String.
So if you look at this, oops, if let,
you'll notice it's type String.
I just lifted out the value.
Identical stuff, you've already used
these, you've already seen them,
this is an enum.